1. Which document assigns the authority to make Canadian regulations governing radiocommunications? Answer: The Radiocommunication Act
2. An Amateur Radio Operator Certificate is valid for: Answer: Three years
3. Whenever a change of address is made: Answer: You must notify Innovation, Science and Economic Development Canada within 30 days of a change of mailing address
4. Which document assigns the authority to publish Standards for the Operation of Radio Stations in the Amateur Radio Service in Canada? Answer: The Radiocommunication Regulations
5. Which department is responsible for the administration of the Radiocommunication Act? Answer: Innovation, Science and Economic Development Canada
6. The Amateur Radio Operator Certificate: Answer: Must be kept in a safe place
7. Which document defines the Canadian "amateur radio service"? Answer: The Radiocommunication Regulations
8. A radio inspector asks to see your Amateur Radio Operator Certificate, or a copy thereof. Per the regulations, how many hours are you given to comply? Answer: 48
9. What must you do within 30 days of a mailing address change? Answer: Inform Innovation, Science and Economic Development Canada
10. What is the fee for a first Amateur Radio Operator Certificate? Answer: $10
11. The Amateur Radio Operator Certificate should be: Answer: Retained at the address provided to Innovation, Science and Economic Development Canada
12. Transmitting a false or fraudulent distress signal or message is prohibited. The person found guilty is liable to what penalty? Answer: A fine, not exceeding $5,000, or a prison term not exceeding one year, or both
13. What is the fee to issue a replacement call sign with a new prefix, due to a change in address to a new province or territory? Answer: $60
14. Which government document states the offences and penalties relating to radiocommunications? Answer: The Radiocommunication Act
15. What is the fee for changing an existing call sign (including changing to a two-letter call sign)? Answer: $55
16. Transmissions outside of amateur radio bands: Answer: Are prohibited and penalties could be assessed to the control operator
17. What is the term in the regulations that defines if an amateur radio operator falsely transmits the word "MAYDAY" when there isn't an emergency? Answer: A false or fraudulent message
18. Which of the following statements is NOT correct? A person responsible for a dwelling entered by a radio inspector shall provide the inspector the requested information. Answer: A radio inspector may enter a dwelling without the consent of the occupant and without a warrant
19. When is an amateur radio operator permitted to transmit false information? Answer: Transmitting false information is never permitted
20. Holders of which one of the following certificates may be issued an Amateur Radio Operator Certificate? Answer: Canadian Radiocommunication Operator General Certificate Maritime (RGMC)
21. Interfering with, or obstructing any radio communication, without lawful cause, is prohibited. The person found guilty is liable to what penalty? Answer: A fine of $10,000
22. After an Amateur Radio Operator Certificate with Basic Qualification is issued, the holder may be examined for additional qualifications in the following order: Answer: Any order
23. How old must you be to hold an Amateur Radio Operator Certificate with Basic Qualification? Answer: There are no age limits
24. What sending and receiving speed, in words per minute (wpm), must you achieve to be granted the Morse code Qualification? Answer: 5 wpm
25. Which examination must be passed before an Amateur Radio Operator Certificate is issued? Answer: Basic Qualification
26. You hold an Amateur Radio Operator Certificate with Advanced Qualification. Besides the amateur radio service, in what other service does this authorization allow you to operate a station? Answer: No other service
27. What conditions must candidates for amateur radio certification meet? Answer: Have a valid address in Canada
28. An amateur radio operator with Basic and Morse code qualifications may install an amateur radio station for another person: Answer: Only if the other person is the holder of a valid Amateur Radio Operator Certificate
29. Under what circumstances can an amateur radio operator with an Advanced Qualification install, place in operation, modify or repair radio apparatus on behalf of another person? Answer: If the other person holds an authorization for this apparatus
30. What regulatory requirement must be met to allow you to repair an amateur radio transmitter on behalf of another person? Answer: Both you and the other person must hold Amateur Radio Operator Certificates
31. What regulatory requirement must be met to allow you to place an amateur radio transmitter in service on behalf of another person? Answer: Only the other person must hold an Amateur Radio Operator Certificate
32. What regulatory requirement must be met to allow you to install an amateur radio transmitter on behalf of another person? Answer: Both you and the other person must hold Amateur Radio Operator Certificates
33. Under what circumstances can an amateur radio operator reprogram a land mobile transmitter on behalf of another person for use on 2 metres? Answer: Only if the other person holds an Amateur Radio Operator Certificate
34. An amateur radio station with a maximum power output of 2 watts: Answer: Must be under the supervision of a person holding an Amateur Radio Operator Certificate and call sign
35. An amateur radio station may be used to communicate with: Answer: Stations operated under similar authorizations
36. Under what circumstances is an amateur radio operator permitted to use an amplifier to amplify the output of a licence-exempt transmitter? Answer: This is not permitted
37. When is it permissible to use amateur radio equipment, with or without modification, to transmit outside amateur radio bands? Answer: Never, amateur radio equipment is not certified for operation outside amateur radio bands
38. Which of the following topics is prohibited on an amateur radio club net? Answer: Business planning
39. When is an amateur radio operator allowed to broadcast information to the general public? Answer: An amateur radio operator may never broadcast to the general public
40. Which of the following statements is NOT correct? Answer: A considerate amateur radio operator does not transmit unnecessary signals
41. What are the restrictions on the use of abbreviations or procedural signals in the amateur radio service? Answer: They may be used if the signals or codes are not secret
42. Which of the following one-way communications may NOT be transmitted in the amateur radio service? Answer: Broadcasts intended for the general public
43. What should you do to keep your amateur radio station from retransmitting music or signals from a non-amateur radio station? Answer: Turn down the volume of background audio
44. The transmission of a secret code by the operator of an amateur radio station: Answer: Is not permitted
45. What regulatory requirement must be met to allow you to use a new digital encoding technique that you developed to transmit data over amateur radio bands? Answer: When it is published in the public domain
46. When may an amateur radio station transmit an encoded message? Answer: Only when the encoding or cipher is not secret
47. An amateur radio operator may be engaged in communications including the transmission of: Answer: Q codes
48. In the amateur radio service, business communications: Answer: Are not permitted under any circumstance
49. What minimum qualifications must an amateur radio operator hold to install an amateur radio club station? Answer: Basic and Advanced
50. What minimum qualifications must an amateur radio operator hold to install or operate a transmitter or RF amplifier that is neither professionally designed nor commercially manufactured for use in the amateur radio service? Answer: Basic and Advanced
... (continues up to 150)
